Good afternoon we're here this afternoon with Mr Brian Quinlan who is one of the longest
attending gardeners at Stackpole Wall Garden and we're interviewing him today which is the
2nd of February 2023 and this is part of the Citizen Curator Project an oral history project
because people that have been working here and certainly very few for as long as Brian
are able to tell us so much more about the gardens so I'm working this afternoon with
Julian Rollins my colleague here who is the tutor at Stackpole so I'm going to hand over and then
we're going to have a bit of a chat okay Julian thank you yeah and thanks for giving us your time
Brian because it's a busy day isn't it um when were you born Brian when when were you born what year
1939 39 is that quarter in now yeah so that's just as the war the second one was started when the war
was started yeah where were you living then as a child where did you live as a child outside Tempe
you know when you were born in the country yeah so you were born in the valley yeah but the farm was down in the valleys
we had to go through a gate and then walk down to the farm and your dad was the farmer yeah my father was yeah
was that Astridge or what was the name of that farm can you remember the name no a long time ago no no gosh so when you were small were you
helping out around the farm yeah what what they used to have you doing what what did your dad
used to ask you to do I know he was on the tractor and on horses plowing with horses then I went on the
tractor after that what age were you when you were driving the truck I know small nine or ten and that was quite
something to have a tractor then yeah because I remember my father telling me you know it was mainly
horses wasn't it quite a thing to have a tractor yeah can you remember what tractor it was
a fordson major small one before they had the blue ones what color would a fordson be then blue blue the big one yeah
so you from a very young age then you were working outdoors doing outdoors
I was walking around with my father when he was plowing yeah and with the tractor yeah
do you remember the name of any of the horses
we had two did you
brown one with the white face and they used to use horses here at the garden didn't they
look before we were all around there's a photo isn't there yeah yeah so when when did you can you
remember when you first came here then Brian first came to Stadpole I think when I went to the anchorage first I think
I was going to have a very good idea what I was doing
no
so you're how old are you now you're 83
three gosh yeah 84 Monday week
oh really oh did that go on there then yeah 84 Monday week and so what did you do between sort of finishing at the farm were you working other places or
I went to the golf refinery then
right right and I grew up working in the canteen
ah so you they love you in the kitchen if they hear that here
yeah so you think would it would you have been around 50 when you started working here or older
I'm not sure a bit older but a bit older yeah yeah about 20 or so years ago probably I suppose that's when yeah yeah things really got going here
yeah
is there anyone else here now who was here when you first came
no no no no so you really are the one that hmm you know what's what then yes okay
so you said to me a little earlier that when you first came here the garden was in a bit of a state
overgrown yeah what was it like what was growing a lot of nettles and brambles and trees trees
yeah small trees big trees like that
wow
from the gate you couldn't open the gate it was well you opened the gate but it was full of brambles and nettles so we had to clear it all down
wow wow so it was like clearing a jungle yeah
so that was that the first job then just cutting your way in yeah
how would how did you do that hmm what what sort of tools did you use can you remember
saw secateurs and clippers
no no power tools no no strimmers back then
I can't remember no don't think so
and was there a big gang of you then or was it just three or four
a few of us
and was mr bateman here then or
yes george george bateman ah right
he was the head grinder then
and did you see many members of the public in those days were there many visitors
yeah i think it was a few walk and row right
so once you once the place had been cleared then was the uh
hmm were there the the area that is now vegetable beds was that the first bit that was cleared
yeah and we worked on them then do them over
and were there was there a greenhouse
hmm was there a greenhouse
yeah there was but i one year then
oh right okay
yeah so you do you remember that first sort of
spring or whatever planting
was it you know quite something to find
make enough space to do your planting
yeah what do you remember about that
digging and did you choose what to plant then
yeah
what did mr bateman tell you was it who was making digging in the tunnels
or the tomatoes
so that was when you got the tunnels underway was it get just out here or yeah yeah
so you grew tomatoes from an early early stage then
yeah
all right
and what else were you growing back then
what else were you growing back then
can you remember tomatoes
yeah onions leeks potatoes
yeah
and was there um
pardon
did you have that little tractor
was there a little tractor back then
was that
yeah we had a small
forts and major
right
was it the same as the one as you'd had at home
no
small
grey one
ah
but you felt
sort of okay about the tractor obviously
yeah
and
did you
how many times a week then did you come was it
just once a week or
i think it was
when we were clearing the
garden
and what was your general feeling did you
you know want to come back
did you find it satisfying to work here
yeah
in what way then was it more like going back to your
your roots sort of thing
yeah
did it remind you of when you were a child on the farm
no
the tractor and stuff there wasn't
fun
yeah
so would the with the crops you were growing then
you were growing onions potatoes leeks tomatoes
where where did all of that produce go to
you know they used to take some veg into the shop in harford west
oh right
next to the one
next to the pub i think
what was the name of that spar
oh yeah
in in bridge street in harford west or
no
uh
in the town
next to the king's arms
all right there you are
yeah there's a shop there and they used to buy veg
off us there
and i think you live in harford west now don't you
were you living there then
when i was here
no
i see
because the charity
pembrokeshire mencap was originally started off in harford west so i guess that's probably the link
for selling the vegetables over there isn't it
did you know ian or you know ian that comes down
from the committee
yeah did you know him then was he here then
i can't remember i think he was probably did overlap i should think yeah
yeah
we can hear the um blasting in the background that's the the military isn't it down on castle martin
you get used to that noise don't you
on the ranges because it's part of life here isn't it listening to the
the guns going off
so um
so you were you would have been coming once a week then
yeah i think so
how did you get here
on the van
on a van yeah
like a minibus
yeah
with with other people who were coming to work
who would be doing the driving then back then
george basement
george would come and pick you up what sort of time of day
half past nine in the mornings
and then you'd be here for a whole day would you
yeah
putting a day's work
you bring your dinner with you then did you
yeah
yeah yeah you bring your lunch yeah
were there women in those days
any women on the bus
i think so
yeah like today a little bit of a mix
i've just seen jane there in the in the greenhouse today yeah
yeah yeah
did you take vegetables home after you'd grown them did you have your own plots in those days or was it more
no it was more general
yeah
i see
and
i was gonna i you'd mentioned lunch hadn't you so when you had you bought
bought a packed lunch in with you
yeah
where did you eat it in those days then when the weather wasn't so good
uh
the canteen in there
in the
where they makes the tea
the corrugated onion shed
yeah
they put their tables and chairs on electric fire in it
quite cozy
yeah
you've seen a lot of changes brian
you know a lot of change over the years
yeah
how does it feel is that good or bad
could be bad
yeah
you're a good advert for it you've kept fit haven't you
you kept do you enjoy that you know that yeah physical work is good isn't it
yeah
so what is it you're working on today brian
oh we're digging the
sides out
when we put my pecs on top
tuck
tuck it in
to the trench then
and then fill it back in
all right so is that this
and it'll hold it
that my pecs down
this is the stuff that the strawberries will go underneath
yeah
make holes in the
plaster in the mypex
and plant them through like the tomatoes
so you're establishing a new strawberry bed isn't it
is that
yeah
and is that good because does strawberries
does it need to be sort of refreshed every
yeah
tell us a bit about that
they grow better then
do they
when they're planted with a mypex
yeah and mypex is like this sort of film like a
it helps to stop the weeds does it
yeah
and is it particular strawberries do you grow el santa
what strawberries do you grow do you know
any kind
they're some they're quite early though aren't they
because they come i always seem to think they come quite early here
and have people always come to pick the strawberries do you remember people doing pick your own in the past
yeah
i think they grow better when they're in the mypex
do they why is that the birds gets at them when they're
loose and some goes bad
so we get jays coming in and stealing them don't we
yeah little devils
had you gardened before coming here
had you gardened at home at all or in the past
when you're in the past
right
did you
roach
oh right
used to dry the tractor then
were you working there then at the
yeah living in
oh right
right
and did they always grew some spuds did they
yeah
in the field then
and hay and straw
oh right
did you enjoy working there
yeah
well there
yeah it was all right
so you came here with a lot of experience
you you knew you knew what was what sort of thing
in terms of the
tractors and gardening and what have you
yeah
do do you think that coming here and doing the sort of work you're doing
keeps you fit
yeah
do you ever
if you ever see the doctor does he tell you you're a fit
you're doing well
yeah
i saw two not long ago
lady doctors she was going to test my legs but she said there's no need because i was fit
oh well done
yeah
she checked my toes and said they're fit
that's in case you get diabetes isn't it i think
she said you get a small stand and put your feet up
rather than down because it helps your veins when your feet is up
but she thought you were pretty good well it's bound to be you're moving a lot
during the day and i would imagine that helps then yeah
what's your favorite job here then brian what do you
here yeah
no anything
raking digging planting
and is this a good time of year now yeah i always think of you planting spuds well not yet but
when will that be a month's time it's it's just the beginning of february now is it march
depends on the weather does it yeah march april
may
you do do you do first earlies
yeah we have done
they're quite popular with people aren't they do people quite like
yeah to come and buy the first new potatoes
yeah
you must have grown many pounds of spuds over the years
haven't you
what's your what would you say your favorite time of year was then
done
what would you say your favorite time of the year here is then
planting
then is it in the spring
may april or may march
it's a nice pace of life yeah you can't force nature no
shall we pause it there yeah yeah just have a breather
get my red light on again
so continuing then brian um you've got your own everybody has their own veg plot
vegetable plot yeah that's it what what do you what are you going to grow on yours this year then
i don't know probably potatoes
anything else
beetroot
so you get some produce from that yeah what so what do you usually do with what you grow then where does
it go to
it takes it home man
and do you cook it yourself
staff you've got
and then we eat it then support workers will cook it for you yeah
do you share it with the people that you're living with then yeah
that's good what do they think do they do they say good things about it nice
do you do you think a potato that you grow yourself takes better than one you buy in a shop
yes sometimes
do you find it varies from year to year depending on the weather and yeah have you ever had blighting spuds down here
yeah
yeah that's a whole other thing isn't it because yeah it flattens them doesn't it
and what's the worst pets pests you get down here then what's the work do you get a lot of slugs or snails or what's the worst
sometimes
yeah
so what was last year like because it was a very hot summer wasn't it last year yeah
did the produce did you manage to grow potatoes last year yeah they looked all right yeah
any particular brand maris piper or yeah
rocket yeah few of the few of the different types is there
yeah
oh good and would you do you wish you still were going around with the horse
and do you wish you were still ploughing with the horse
no no
they walked a long way in those days yeah
so what's happening at the moment then out there
anything changing at the moment
is there anything changing at the moment there's
seem to be new beds appearing in different places
yeah
what's going on
grapevine
oh yes
getting ready for the grapevines
what do you think of that
should be good
different isn't it
interesting isn't it
yeah
yeah it'd be good the day we can all sit down and enjoy a glass of wall garden wine won't it
that'd be all right
yeah
that'd be the day
wow
you're pretty keen to get back to your strawberry bed i understand
while it's sunny
yeah
so shall we stop it there and then we'll maybe
come back to you in the future with a few definite questions
yeah yeah
maybe when some of the things that you've just planting now we could talk to you about them
yeah
well you know when you start planting it later in the summer and ask you a bit about those
thank you Brian
thank you